SUPER SHOTGUN BROH

Video Demo: [Super Shotgun Broh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nvz6269tfv4)

Godot Engine Introduction

Godot is a free, open source game engine, developed and maintained by the Godot Foundation, distributed under the MIT license, which means that in addition to being free, anyone can have access to the program's source code and make any changes they deem necessary. The Engine supports both 2D and 3D, supports the following languages: GDScript, C# and C++ and its projects can be exported to different platforms such as Windows, Linux, Android, etc.  
One of the most basic operating units in Godot are Nodes, Nodes are small components capable of performing different functions and that can be combined with other Nodes to generate more complex behaviors, there are several types of Nodes with different functions, such as showing an image, play a sound, detect collisions and various things commonly used in games. All Nodes have a name, editable properties, can be manipulated via code, can and should be combined to achieve more complex behaviors. When several Nodes are combined we have what we call a Scene, and just like Nodes, Scenes can also be combined. We can, for example, combine the animation and collision Nodes to create a character that will be controlled via code, as the character is a combination of Nodes it is what can be called a Scene, we can also use the image, collision and sound Nodes to create a scenario, which will also be a Scene and in the same way that we can combine Nodes to achieve more complex behaviors we can combine Scenes, for example, the character Scene and the scenery so we will have a character controlled by code that can move by the scenario, or we can combine other Nodes to make a new scenario and combine this new scenario with the character already created, by combining Scenes we have what is called a Tree. In short, by combining Nodes we create Scenes and by creating Scenes we create Trees and putting all this together we will have a Game. Another concept that we need to understand are signals, signals work as a means of communication between Nodes allowing a Node to notify one or more Nodes when something happens and then react to that event, for example let's suppose we have an animation Node and we want that a sound is emitted at the end of the animation, we can then connect the animation Node to the sound Node, when the animation ends the signal will be activated warning all connected Nodes, in this case the sound Node will be notified that the animation has ended and then may react accordingly in this case by playing a sound.  

Global  
Some variables and functions need to be accessed and maintained throughout the game, for example, the variables that control the player's number of lives and their points. For this, Godot allows us to create a Global scope class, which can be accessed anywhere in our project and is also loaded automatically as soon as we run our project. We will call this class Global, and its variables and functions will be explained throughout this project according to your needs.  

Project Introduction

When starting the project we are faced with the following screen: Image Placeholder

It is a Scene composed of the following Nodes, Node2D(Intro) which is a base Node with no function that will serve as a root Node, Sprite2D which is responsible for displaying the image on the screen (made by me in paint) and its characteristics, Camera2D which controls what the player can or cannot see and finally we have the AnimationPlayer Node, this allows us to control characteristics of other Nodes over time so that we can create animations. Using the Animation Player Node we will control the “modulate” property of the Sprite2D Node to change the color of the displayed image, alternating from its normal state to being completely black and then to its normal state again in a loop.  
To control this Scene we have a Script called Intro.gd, in the first line we see that it inherits the properties of the Node class, in the third we use the preload function to load the next Scene to be displayed, for this we will pass the Scene address as a parameter to be loaded, we will save the loading in the created variable “game_opening”.  
Next on line 5 we have the _process(_delta) function: which is responsible for running our code with each game loop executed, on line 6 we will use the is_action_just_pressed("Space") function of the Input class, to check if the space key was pressed, then in each game loop we check if it was pressed, if it was, the function returns a boolean with the value true and otherwise with the value false. Along with this, we can use an IF function to check whether the space key was pressed and if so, it will perform the function below: get_tree().change_scene_to_packed(game_opening), this function accesses the Scene tree and changes the current Scene to the Scene loaded and stored in the game_opening variable.  
When starting the game, the first thing we need to do is teach the player the controls. And for this we will use the same nodes used previously, first we will use a 2d node to group and control the other nodes, then we will use the Sprite2D node to display an image created by me containing the game instructions, we will also use the camera2d node to control the player's vision and finally we will use the timer node to control how long the image will be displayed on the screen.

Imageplaceholder  

With all the necessary nodes, we will now use code to control the Scene. The name of the script is SSBIntro.gd in the first line we see that the Script inherits some properties from Node2D, in line 3 we use the preload function to load the next Scene and store this Scene in the next_scene variable.  On line 5 we have the _on_timer_timeout() function: this function is triggered by the timer as soon as the time defined in it ends, the role of this function is to access our Global class and define the player's level, in this case 0, and also change the IntroSSB Scene for our next phase using the get_tree().change_scene_to_packed(next_scene) function.  

